---
layout: post
title: Siegert et al "Predicting outliers in ensemble forecasts"
category: publication
---

Siegert, S., Bröcker, J., & Kantz, H. (2011). **Predicting outliers in ensemble
forecasts.** Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society, 137(660),
1887-1897.

- [QJRMS link](https://rmets.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/qj.868)

**Abstract**

An ensemble forecast is a collection of runs of a numerical dynamical model,
initialized with perturbed initial conditions. In modern weather prediction for
example, ensembles are used to retrieve probabilistic information about future
weather conditions. In this contribution, we are concerned with ensemble
forecasts of a scalar quantity (say, the temperature at a specific location).
We consider the event that the verification is smaller than the smallest, or
larger than the largest ensemble member. We call these events outliers. If a
K‐member ensemble accurately reflected the variability of the verification,
outliers should occur with a base rate of 2/(K + 1). In operational forecast
ensembles though, this frequency is often found to be higher. We study the
predictability of outliers and find that, exploiting information available from
the ensemble, forecast probabilities for outlier events can be calculated which
are more skilful than the unconditional base rate. We prove this analytically
for statistically consistent forecast ensembles. Further, the analytical
results are compared to the predictability of outliers in an operational
forecast ensemble by means of model output statistics. We find the analytical
and empirical results to agree both qualitatively and quantitatively.

