---
layout: post
title: Siegert et al "A Bayesian framework for verification and recalibration of ensemble forecasts"
category: publication
---

Siegert, S., Stephenson, D. B., Sansom, P. G., Scaife, A. A., Eade, R., &
Arribas, A. (2016). **A Bayesian framework for verification and recalibration
of ensemble forecasts: How uncertain is NAO predictability?**. Journal of
Climate, 29(3), 995-1012.

- [Journal of Climate link](https://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/full/10.1175/JCLI-D-15-0196.1)
- [Arxiv link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.01933)


**Abstract:**

Predictability estimates of ensemble prediction systems are uncertain because
of limited numbers of past forecasts and observations. To account for such
uncertainty, this paper proposes a Bayesian inferential framework that provides
a simple 6-parameter representation of ensemble forecasting systems and the
corresponding observations. The framework is probabilistic and thus allows for
quantifying uncertainty in predictability measures, such as correlation skill
and signal-to-noise ratios. It also provides a natural way to produce
recalibrated probabilistic predictions from uncalibrated ensembles forecasts.

The framework is used to address important questions concerning the skill of
winter hindcasts of the North Atlantic Oscillation for 1992–2011 issued by the
Met Office Global Seasonal Forecast System, version 5 (GloSea5), climate
prediction system. Although there is much uncertainty in the correlation
between ensemble mean and observations, there is strong evidence of skill: the
95% credible interval of the correlation coefficient of [0.19, 0.68] does not
overlap zero. There is also strong evidence that the forecasts are not
exchangeable with the observations: with over 99% certainty, the
signal-to-noise ratio of the forecasts is smaller than the signal-to-noise
ratio of the observations, which suggests that raw forecasts should not be
taken as representative scenarios of the observations. Forecast recalibration
is thus required, which can be coherently addressed within the proposed
framework.


