---
layout: post
title: Bellprat et al "Uncertainty propagation in observational references to climate model scales"
category: publication
---

Bellprat, O., Massonnet, F., Siegert, S., Prodhomme, C., Macias-Gómez, D.,
Guemas, V., & Doblas-Reyes, F. (2017). **Uncertainty propagation in
observational references to climate model scales.** Remote Sensing of
Environment, 203, 101-108.

- [journal link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425717302936)

**Abstract**

Climate model simulations and observational references of the Earth's climate
are the two primary sources of information used for climate related
decision-making. While uncertainties in climate models and observational
references have been assessed thoroughly, it has remained difficult to
integrate these, partly because of the lack of formal concepts on how to
consider observational uncertainties in model-observation comparison. One of
the difficulties dealing with observational uncertainty is its propagation to
the space–time scales represented by the models. This is a challenge due to the
correlation of observational errors in space and time. Here we present an
approximation which allows to derive propagation factors to different model
scales and apply these to uncertainty estimates provided by the Climate Change
Initiative (CCI) sea-surface temperature (SST) data set. The propagated
uncertainty in SST observations is found to systematically lower seasonal
forecast skill and to increase the uncertainty in verification of seasonal
forecasts, an aspect that remains currently overlooked. Uncertainty in forecast
quality assessment is dominated by the shortness of the satellite record.
Expanding the record length of these data sets might hence reduce the
verification uncertainties more than the efforts to reduce the observational
uncertainties.

