---
layout: post
title: Siegert & Stephenson "Forecast Recalibration and Multimodel Combination"
category: publication
---


Siegert, S., & Stephenson, D. B. (2019). **Forecast Recalibration and
Multimodel Combination.** In *Sub-Seasonal to Seasonal Prediction* (pp.
321-336). Elsevier.


- [book link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/9780128117149/sub-seasonal-to-seasonal-prediction)
- [chapter link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128117149000152)

**Abstract**

Since numerical models of the climate system are only imperfect approximations
of the real world, their forecasts often do not agree with real-world
observations. This discrepancy often necessitates a statistical postprocessing
step, called forecast recalibration, to better fit the climate model forecasts
to future observations. In this chapter, we discuss forecast recalibration from
the point of view of statistical modeling. We consider numerical model
forecasts as explanatory variables in a statistical model of the real world. We
focus on well known regression methods, particularly model output statistics
and nonhomogeneous Gaussian regression, for their simplicity, interpretability,
and good performance to correct common forecast errors. In situations where
more than one climate model forecast is available for the same prediction
target, it is necessary to produce an optimal combination of multiple forecasts
into a single forecast. We show that forecast recalibration and forecast
combination are closely related, and discuss a Bayesian regression method to
combine multiple forecasts. The method can assign higher combination weights to
models that better correlate with the real world, while avoiding overfitting by
controlling the overall variability of the combination weights. All methods are
illustrated on seasonal temperature forecasts over the Niño-3.4 region.

